---
id: New Lead Developer
author: Brandon M. Biggs
authorURL: https://waketechbrandon.github.io/tech-portfolio/
title: Overwatch 2 New Lead Developer
---

# Prompt

You are now the lead devloper of Overwatch, what changes do you make?

<!--truncate-->

## Battlepass reworks

Battlepass grants 4 cosmetics every level up.

Every tier has both premium and free rewards.

There are now Legacy Passes. 
- Every Overwatch 1 item has been removed from the shop and is in 6 new legacy passes that each cost $10.
- Overwatch 2 passes enter the legacy pass shop after 1 year.
- Only one Legacy Pass can be active while the seasonal pass is active.
- You cannot earn Prestige Pass rewards from legacy passes.

- Earning a new battlepass tier has the same animation as lootbox openings with an additional coin being added for each additional cosmetic in the tier.

# Balance Update

## General

## All heros

50 more HP for all 250 and under heroes.

### Supports

Supports have off-screen-ally icons that appear on the edges of the screen (can be switched on/off/only critical allies in settings)

Supports also can see all allies health bars above their own (can be switched onoff in settings.)

#### Kiriko

##### Suzu
- No longer applies a incorporeal effect.
- Cooldown is reduced to 7s (was 15s).

##### Swift Step
- Cooldown now scales 3s - 7s with teleport distance

#### Mercy

##### Guardian Angel (GA)
- Maximum downtime between consecutive GAs is 2.5s (was 3s)

##### Caduceus Staff
Staff now has a "beam strength" in which the attached beam looks physically smaller and less active the longer it is attached to an ally.
- 45hps boosted to 70hps for 1 second after attaching to a new ally.
- 15% damage amplification boosted to 30%
- Beam strength does not weaken during Valkyrie.

##### Resurrection
- Reduced cast time to instant.
- Reduced cooldown to 10s (was 30s).
- Restores the target by 200 HP (was Maximum Health)
- Now costs 20% ultimate charge to cast.
- Does not cost ultimate charge during Valkyrie
- Restored to Maximum Health during Valkryie.

##### Caduceus Blaster
- Can no longer damage enemies.
- Heals 10 on impact and 10 on Area-Of-Effect for allies.

##### New Alternate Fire Mode.
More precise hitbox, and blue bullets
- 20 impact damage toward enemies 
- Applies a 5% damage amplification effect against the target
- Duration 1 second
- Stacks up to 5 times
- Duration refreshes with each application.

#### Moira

##### Alternate Fire
- Alt fire reduced to 20dps (from 50) and 20hps (from 24)

##### Biotic Orb
- Orbs are now damageable. Dealing damage to the orb now reduces the pool of healing/damage the orb has.

##### Biotic Orb: Healing
- Allies attached to the orb recieve 50% more healing
- Healing reduced to 30hps (45 with boost) from 50

##### Biotic Orb: Damage
- Damage reduced to 41dps (45 with boost) from 65dps
- Enemies attached to the orb have "sickness" applied to them

##### Sickness
- Green tint to view.
- Far objects become blured.
- 10% damage amplification against victims.

#### Baptiste

##### Biotic Launcher
- Damage reduced to 5dmg-25dmg from 7.2dmg-25dmg
- Fall-off range decreased to 15m-45m from 25m-45m

##### Regenerative Burst
- Healing-Over-Time removed.
- Cooldown has been reduced to 10s from 15s.

##### Amplification Matrix
- Is now ability 2
- Amplification effect reduced to 25% from 100%
- Cooldown is 8s
- Duration is 6s

##### Immortality Field
- Is now Ultimate Ability
- Now all allies around Baptiste are prevented from losing HP
- Hacking Baptiste will deploy the Immortality Field at Baptiste's location
- Using the ultimate again will deploy the Immortality field  as normal for remaining duration.
- Duration is increased to 15s
- Immortality Field (deployed) Health increased to 350 from 150.
- Area-Of-Effect increased to 10m
- Area-Of-Effect (deployed) increased to 7m from 6.5m
- Dying as Baptiste will deploy immortality field at his death location for the remaining duration.

#### Brigitte

##### Health Pool
- Health is 200 (this overrides general 50 additional health for all heroes)
- Armor is 100 

##### Inspire
- Passive Removed

##### Shield Bash
- Cooldown reduced to 4s from 5s

##### Repair Pack
- Overhealth is now generated by Heal-Over-Time when Full Health.
- Overhealth is removed after 2s after Repair Pack's Heal-Over-Time effect has ended.
- Overhealth Maximum is half the target's Maximum Health.
- Cooldown reduced to 3s from 6s.

#### Damage 

##### New Role Passive: Damage Cascade
- Damaging a hero increases damage against that hero for 2s. Stacks with itself.





